[RFC] Introduce Clock Management Subsystem (Clock Driver Based) (#72102)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/hardware/clock_management/index.rst

directly, using :c:func:`clock_management_apply_state`. States are described in
devicetree, and are opaque to the driver/application code consuming the clock.

Each clock consumer described in devicetree can set named clock states for each
clock output. These states are described by the ``clock-state-n`` properties
present on each consumer. The consumer can access states using macros like
:c:macro:`CLOCK_MANAGEMENT_DT_GET_STATE`

Requesting Clock Rates
======================

In some applications, the user may not want to directly configure clock nodes
within their devicetree. The clock management subsystem allows applications to
request a clock rate directly as well, by using
:c:func:`clock_management_req_rate`.  If any states satisfy the frequency range
request, the state offering the frequency closest to the maximum frequency
requested. will be applied.  Otherwise if
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CLOCK_MANAGEMENT_SET_RATE` is set, the clock management
subsystem will perform runtime calculations to apply a rate within the requested
range. If runtime rate calculation support is disabled, the request will fail if

> no defined states satisfy it.

Reviewer: It's nice to see that both pre-defined states and flexible rate solving might be supported by the API

        };                                                                     \
        static struct mydev_data mydev_data##i;                                \
        ...                                                                    \
                                                                               \
        DEVICE_DT_INST_DEFINE(i, mydev_init, NULL, &mydev_data##i,             \
                              &mydev_config##i, ...);

    DT_INST_FOREACH_STATUS_OKAY(MYDEV_DEFINE)

.. _clock_management_api:

Clock Management API
********************

.. doxygengroup:: clock_management_interface

.. _clock_management_dt_api:

Devicetree Clock Management Helpers
===================================

.. doxygengroup:: devicetree-clock-management

.. _clock-producers:

Clock Producers
***************

This is a high level overview of clock producers in Zephyr. See
:ref:`clock_driver_api` for API reference material.

Introduction
============

Consumers interact with the clock management subsystem via the
:ref:`clock_management_api`, which leverages the :ref:`clock_driver_api` to
interface with clock producers, which configure SOC-specific clock tree

> settings. Each clock producer must implmenent the clock driver API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface with clock producers, which configure SOC-specific clock tree
settings. Each clock producer must implement the clock driver API.
```
